doc/source/user/usage.rst, before:

=======
 Usage
=======

.. _usage-app:

In an Application
=================

When using `Python's standard logging library`_ the following minimal setup
demonstrates basic logging.

.. _Python's standard logging library: https://docs.python.org/2/library/logging.html

.. highlight:: python
.. literalinclude:: examples/python_logging.py
   :linenos:
   :lines: 17-26

Source: :ref:`examples/python_logging.py <example_python_logging.py>`

When using Oslo Logging the following setup demonstrates a comparative
syntax with Python standard logging.


.. literalinclude:: examples/oslo_logging.py
   :linenos:
   :lines: 17-30
   :emphasize-lines: 8,9

Source: :ref:`examples/oslo_logging.py <example_oslo_logging.py>`

Oslo Logging Setup Methods
--------------------------

Applications need to use the oslo.log configuration functions to register
logging-related configuration options and configure the root and other
default loggers before using standard logging functions.

Call :func:`~oslo_log.log.register_options` with an oslo.config CONF object
before parsing any application command line options.

.. literalinclude:: examples/usage.py
   :linenos:
   :lines: 33,36-37,46-49
   :emphasize-lines: 7

Optionally call :func:`~oslo_log.log.set_defaults` before setup to
change default logging levels if necessary.

.. literalinclude:: examples/usage.py
   :linenos:
   :lines: 51-53,61-69
   :emphasize-lines: 10

Call :func:`~oslo_log.log.setup` with the oslo.config CONF object used
when registering objects, along with the domain and optionally a version
to configure logging for the application.

.. literalinclude:: examples/usage.py
   :linenos:
   :lines: 34,36-37,70-72
   :emphasize-lines: 6

Source: :ref:`examples/usage.py <example_usage.py>`

Oslo Logging Functions
----------------------

Use standard Python logging functions to produce log records at applicable
log levels.

.. literalinclude:: examples/usage.py
   :linenos:
   :lines: 77-83

**Example Logging Output:**

::

    2016-01-14 21:07:51.394 12945 INFO __main__ [-] Welcome to Oslo Logging
    2016-01-14 21:07:51.395 12945 WARNING __main__ [-] A warning occurred
    2016-01-14 21:07:51.395 12945 ERROR __main__ [-] An error occurred
    2016-01-14 21:07:51.396 12945 ERROR __main__ [-] An Exception occurred
    2016-01-14 21:07:51.396 12945 ERROR __main__ None
    2016-01-14 21:07:51.396 12945 ERROR __main__

Logging within an application should use `Oslo International Utilities (i18n)`_ marker
functions to provide language translation capabilities.

.. _Oslo International Utilities (i18n): https://docs.openstack.org/oslo.i18n/latest

.. literalinclude:: examples/usage_i18n.py
   :linenos:
   :lines: 31-32,76,79-85
   :emphasize-lines: 1

Source: :ref:`examples/usage_i18n.py <example_usage_i18n.py>`

With the use of `Oslo Context`_, log records can also contain
additional contextual information applicable for your application.

.. _Oslo Context: https://docs.openstack.org/oslo.context/latest

.. literalinclude:: examples/usage_context.py
   :linenos:
   :lines: 80-85
   :emphasize-lines: 3-5

**Example Logging Output:**

::

    2016-01-14 20:04:34.562 11266 INFO __main__ [-] Welcome to Oslo Logging
    2016-01-14 20:04:34.563 11266 INFO __main__ [-] Without context
    2016-01-14 20:04:34.563 11266 INFO __main__ [req-bbc837a6-be80-4eb2-8ca3-53043a93b78d 6ce90b4d d6134462 a6b9360e - -] With context

The log record output format without context is defined with
:oslo.config:option:`logging_default_format_string` configuration
variable.  When specifying context the
:oslo.config:option:`logging_context_format_string` configuration
variable is used.

The Oslo RequestContext object contains a number of attributes that can be
specified in :oslo.config:option:`logging_context_format_string`. An
application can extend this object to provide additional attributes that can
be specified in log records.



Examples
--------

:ref:`examples/usage.py <example_usage.py>` provides a documented
example of Oslo Logging setup.

:ref:`examples/usage_helper.py <example_usage_helper.py>` provides an
example showing debugging logging at each step details the configuration
and logging at each step of Oslo Logging setup.

:ref:`examples/usage_i18n.py <example_usage_i18n.py>` provides a
documented example of Oslo Logging with Oslo i18n supported messages.

:ref:`examples/usage_context.py <example_usage_context.py>` provides
a documented example of Oslo Logging with Oslo Context.


General Logging Guidelines
==========================

The `OpenStack Logging Guidelines`_ in openstack-specs repository
explain how to use different logging levels, and the desired logging
patterns to be used in OpenStack applications.

.. _OpenStack Logging Guidelines: https://specs.openstack.org/openstack/openstack-specs/specs/log-guidelines.html

In a Library
============

oslo.log is primarily used for configuring logging in an application,
but it does include helpers that can be useful from libraries.

:func:`~oslo_log.log.getLogger` wraps the function of the same name
from Python's standard library to add a
:class:`~oslo_log.log.KeywordArgumentAdapter`, making it easier to
pass data to the formatters provided by oslo.log and configured by an
application.

Commit message:

Fix guidelines w.r.t. translation of log messages
Translation of log messages was ceased starting with Pike, but only
the oslo.i18n documentation was only partially updated (by
Ia34ad79ca9), and not this repository.

So remove misleading examples of log translation from this
documentation.

Change-Id: Ib86013ff5e7bd07ddc696da2e4c56ce9d07f0cb6

doc/source/user/usage.rst, after:

=======
 Usage
=======

.. _usage-app:

In an Application
=================

When using `Python's standard logging library`_ the following minimal setup
demonstrates basic logging.

.. _Python's standard logging library: https://docs.python.org/2/library/logging.html

.. highlight:: python
.. literalinclude:: examples/python_logging.py
   :linenos:
   :lines: 17-26

Source: :ref:`examples/python_logging.py <example_python_logging.py>`

When using Oslo Logging the following setup demonstrates a comparative
syntax with Python standard logging.


.. literalinclude:: examples/oslo_logging.py
   :linenos:
   :lines: 17-30
   :emphasize-lines: 8,9

Source: :ref:`examples/oslo_logging.py <example_oslo_logging.py>`

Oslo Logging Setup Methods
--------------------------

Applications need to use the oslo.log configuration functions to register
logging-related configuration options and configure the root and other
default loggers before using standard logging functions.

Call :func:`~oslo_log.log.register_options` with an oslo.config CONF object
before parsing any application command line options.

.. literalinclude:: examples/usage.py
   :linenos:
   :lines: 33,36-37,46-49
   :emphasize-lines: 7

Optionally call :func:`~oslo_log.log.set_defaults` before setup to
change default logging levels if necessary.

.. literalinclude:: examples/usage.py
   :linenos:
   :lines: 51-53,61-69
   :emphasize-lines: 10

Call :func:`~oslo_log.log.setup` with the oslo.config CONF object used
when registering objects, along with the domain and optionally a version
to configure logging for the application.

.. literalinclude:: examples/usage.py
   :linenos:
   :lines: 34,36-37,70-72
   :emphasize-lines: 6

Source: :ref:`examples/usage.py <example_usage.py>`

Oslo Logging Functions
----------------------

Use standard Python logging functions to produce log records at applicable
log levels.

.. literalinclude:: examples/usage.py
   :linenos:
   :lines: 77-83

**Example Logging Output:**

::

    2016-01-14 21:07:51.394 12945 INFO __main__ [-] Welcome to Oslo Logging
    2016-01-14 21:07:51.395 12945 WARNING __main__ [-] A warning occurred
    2016-01-14 21:07:51.395 12945 ERROR __main__ [-] An error occurred
    2016-01-14 21:07:51.396 12945 ERROR __main__ [-] An Exception occurred
    2016-01-14 21:07:51.396 12945 ERROR __main__ None
    2016-01-14 21:07:51.396 12945 ERROR __main__

Oslo Log Translation
--------------------

As of the Pike release, `logging within an application should no
longer use Oslo International Utilities (i18n) marker functions
<https://docs.openstack.org/oslo.i18n/latest/user/guidelines.html#log-translation>`_
to provide language translation capabilities.

Adding Context to Logging
-------------------------

With the use of `Oslo Context`_, log records can also contain
additional contextual information applicable for your application.

.. _Oslo Context: https://docs.openstack.org/oslo.context/latest

.. literalinclude:: examples/usage_context.py
   :linenos:
   :lines: 80-85
   :emphasize-lines: 3-5

**Example Logging Output:**

::

    2016-01-14 20:04:34.562 11266 INFO __main__ [-] Welcome to Oslo Logging
    2016-01-14 20:04:34.563 11266 INFO __main__ [-] Without context
    2016-01-14 20:04:34.563 11266 INFO __main__ [req-bbc837a6-be80-4eb2-8ca3-53043a93b78d 6ce90b4d d6134462 a6b9360e - -] With context

The log record output format without context is defined with
:oslo.config:option:`logging_default_format_string` configuration
variable.  When specifying context the
:oslo.config:option:`logging_context_format_string` configuration
variable is used.

The Oslo RequestContext object contains a number of attributes that can be
specified in :oslo.config:option:`logging_context_format_string`. An
application can extend this object to provide additional attributes that can
be specified in log records.

Examples
--------

:ref:`examples/usage.py <example_usage.py>` provides a documented
example of Oslo Logging setup.

:ref:`examples/usage_helper.py <example_usage_helper.py>` provides an
example showing debugging logging at each step details the configuration
and logging at each step of Oslo Logging setup.

:ref:`examples/usage_context.py <example_usage_context.py>` provides
a documented example of Oslo Logging with Oslo Context.


General Logging Guidelines
==========================

The `OpenStack Logging Guidelines`_ in openstack-specs repository
explain how to use different logging levels, and the desired logging
patterns to be used in OpenStack applications.

.. _OpenStack Logging Guidelines: https://specs.openstack.org/openstack/openstack-specs/specs/log-guidelines.html

In a Library
============

oslo.log is primarily used for configuring logging in an application,
but it does include helpers that can be useful from libraries.

:func:`~oslo_log.log.getLogger` wraps the function of the same name
from Python's standard library to add a
:class:`~oslo_log.log.KeywordArgumentAdapter`, making it easier to
pass data to the formatters provided by oslo.log and configured by an
application.
